# 1733: Colonial Tea

In [1733: Colonial Tea](https://brian-montgomery.github.io/jc2e-tea/), players continue to assume the roles of ambitious families attempting to use both the British East India Company and Colonial America for personal gain. The scenario begins in the 1730s, just as the Company and the southern mainland American Colonies have established their respective charters, Britain has resolved its recent war with Spain, and China has established its first prohibition against opium.

This scenario is designed to be a different lens on the story that John Company: Second Edition is trying to tell. It zooms out, focusing more on the government and how the Company interoperated with the British trade in the American colonies. It focuses on tea because of the British and American obsession with tea during the 18th century, which raises the importance of the trade with China. This scenario also commemorates the 250 year anniversary of America’s Declaration of Independence.

It’s also meant to show the contrast of the EIC’s relationship with India to Britain’s relationship to Colonial America. There’s also the similarity of the British families using the EIC to ‘move up’ into the social elite, at the same time that Britain is trying to ‘move up’ to become a global superpower - using India, China and America to do so.

[John Company](https://wehrlegig.com/products/john-company-second-edition) is a complex game and this scenario adds even more rules and systems. Due to the additional offices, board space and complexity, this scenario is aimed at experienced groups with larger player counts (5-6 players). There is additional importance placed on military (and thus, governors) in India. While this scenario will not take as long as the full 1710 scenario, it will take a group longer to play than the original “shorter” (4-5 turn) scenarios.
